README.md, before:



# Affordable Generative Agents

<p align="center" width="100%">
<img src="./doc/pic/aga_framework.png" alt="The framework of AGA" style="width: 60%; min-width: 300px; display: block; margin: auto;">
</p>

"Affordable Generative Agents (AGA)" is a framework for enabling the generation of believable and low-cost agent-environment and inter-agent interactions. In this repository, we support two environments:

- GA: [Generative Agents: Interactive Simulacra of Human Behavior](https://github.com/joonspk-research/generative_agents)
- VirtualHome: [VirtualHome](https://github.com/xavierpuigf/virtualhome)

# How to start a simulation

We have provided the specific README.md for the corresponding environment as follows:

- [Generative Agents](GA/README.md)
- [VirtualHome](VirtualHome/README.md)


# Citation

If our work assists your research, feel free to give us a star ⭐ or cite us using:

```
@article{
yu2024affordable,
title={Affordable Generative Agents},
author={Yangbin Yu and Qin Zhang and junyou li and QIANG FU and Deheng Ye},
journal={Transactions on Machine Learning Research},
issn={2835-8856},
year={2024},
url={https://openreview.net/forum?id=7tlYbcq5DY},
note={}
}
```

Commit message:

updated some links in the documentation. Apparently, cleaning up is a recursive loop :-)

README.md, after:



# Affordable Generative Agents (Backend)

<p align="center" width="100%">
<img src="./GA/docs/images/aga_framework.png" alt="The framework of AGA">
</p>

"Affordable Generative Agents (AGA)" is a framework for enabling the generation of believable and low-cost agent-environment and inter-agent interactions. 

This repo is based on [Generative Agents: Interactive Simulacra of Human Behavior](https://github.com/joonspk-research/generative_agents). Generative Agents provides a platform that simulates a virtual environment with both front-end and back-end capabilities. 

# How to start a simulation
There's a dedicated documentation for the corresponding environment as follows:
- Backend: [Generative Agents](GA/README.md)
- Frontend:[VirtualHome](VirtualHome/README.md)

## Good To Know
When I red the paper I got very excited but the initial code was only supporting OpenAI. I quickly realized that the cost to just run for a fun moment would have racked cloud bill$, even for an affordable agent 😅. 

So I added support for more cost effective models and start adding features as I learned more about the initial codebase. I have been in the rabbit hole ever since. 🎢 I think this work has a great potential waiting for some creativity and boldness to unlock it. So I am trying.

🧘🏼‍♂️ A good advice for any Internet finding: *I don't know what I am doing* therefore feel encouranged to advice if you have more experience and share your pain if you have less than me. Good luck, to both of us.

# Citation

From the authors of the paper: If our work assists your research, feel free to [give us](https://github.com/joonspk-research/generative_agents) a star ⭐ or cite us using:

```
@article{
yu2024affordable,
title={Affordable Generative Agents},
author={Yangbin Yu and Qin Zhang and junyou li and QIANG FU and Deheng Ye},
journal={Transactions on Machine Learning Research},
issn={2835-8856},
year={2024},
url={https://openreview.net/forum?id=7tlYbcq5DY},
note={}
}
```
